Doc 306 - Migrate Query Workers content from KB to docs (#97)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/queryworkers/index.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Queries and Query Workers
---

> You can access your Macrometa data collections by writing a _query_ in C8QL](../c8ql/index.md). GDN stores named and parameterized C8QL queries as _Query Workers_. They can be executed from a dedicated REST endpoint, and are also known as RESTQL or “Query as API.”

Reviewer: Syntax error, rendering out as a broken markdown link.

> You can access your Macrometa data collections by writing a _query_ in [C8QL](../c8ql/index.md). GDN stores named and parameterized C8QL queries as _Query Workers_. They can be executed from a dedicated REST endpoint, and are also known as RESTQL or “Query as API.”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access your Macrometa data collections by writing a _query_ in [C8QL](../c8ql/index.md). GDN stores named and parameterized C8QL queries as _query workers_ that you can run from a dedicated REST endpoint. Query workers are also called RESTQL or “Query as API.”

```

Is it important to mention RESTQL/Query as API?

When the user saves a query, the query is automatically converted to an API and is deployed globally to serve the users from the region closest to them with local latencies.

:::note

> We recommend using Query Workers to build applications backed by GDN as opposed to querying with C8QL directly from application code or setting up a centralized middleware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Best practice is to use query workers to build applications integrated with GDN instead of directly querying C8QL.
```
